## Machine_learning_against_COVID-19
We are currently working on a project that aimed to develop an end-to-end machine learning application that will ascertain individuals' exposure risk to COVID-19
## Abstract 
The continuous rise in the spread of the COVID-19 virus has posed great setback to the entire scientific community and humanity. It is in this light that this study ascertained best features to predict individuals’ risk infection status (‘Low’, ‘Medium’, ‘High’) to COVID-19. With flock of risk assessment tools currently available online, there are need to evaluate the features used in prediction of risk infection status of an individual. Identifying the most relevant features will assist healthcare officials and scientists to develop
more reliable risk assessment tools and evaluation criteria. This study evaluated risk assessment publicly available dataset on COVID-19 and selected the best features to predicts risk infection status. The cleaned dataset had 32 features, which were correlated with target variable in continuous state (percentage risk infection) and in binarized state (risk exposure status). 21 features with correlation
coefficients greater than or equal to zero were selected. These features were visualized on 2D-principal components and clustering (K-means) analysis. The features were further checked for multicollinearity using Variance Inflation Factor, this reduced them to 14. The OLS multiple regression model was first used to model the selected features. However, in order to further mitigate the effects of model
complexity, the 14 features were shrunk to 10 using the best subset forward selection and ridge regression. The best selected features were analyzed the second time using supervised machine learning algorithms (logistics, decision trees, K-neighbor and random forest). The accuracies, recalls, precision and f1-scores of the classifiers were used to evaluate the model performance. The random
forest classifier out-performed the other classifiers with final test accuracy of 83.72%. The findings of this study stressed five most important features that predicts risk infection status of individuals. The number of contacts count an individual make on daily basis, lack of using face mask, COVID-19 contacts, rate of government action and drugs usage posed greater risk to individual’s exposure to
COVID-19. Thus, attention is needed to further mitigate the risk of having a second wave infection from COVID-19 especially as most countries are beginning to lift bans.
Keywords: Feature selection, Clustering, Supervised Machine Learning, COVID-19, Risk infection status.
